jQuery-
jQuery is an open-sourced JavaScript library that simplifies creation and navigation of web applications. Specifically, jQuery simplifies HTML Document Object Model (DOM) manipulation, Asynchronous JavaScript and XML (Ajax) and event handling.
JavaScript
is the Programming Language for the Web. JavaScript can update and change both HTML and CSS. JavaScript can calculate, manipulate and validate data
PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor.
PHP can generate dynamic page content.
PHP can create, open, read, write, delete, and close files on the server.
PHP can collect form data.
PHP can send and receive cookies.
PHP can add, delete, modify data in your database.
PHP can be used to control user-access.
PHP can encrypt data.
client-side -development gathers input from users. For example, developers can use JavaScript to create forms that collect user input.
Server side- examples-
Meanwhile, server-side development processes this input. For example, developers can use PHP to connect a database to a website and send user-inputted data to the database.
HTML-
HTML uses browser cache memory as temporary storage.
HTML does not have support for video and audio
HTML5-
HTML5 offers multiple storage options, such as an SQL database, application cache, and web storage
HTML5 supports both video and audio.

Row Span-
rowspan attribute in HTML specifies the number of rows a cell should span.
Col span-
specifies the number of columns a cell should span

Marq tag-
The <marquee> HTML element is used to insert a scrolling area of text.

namespace-
Namespace is a context for identifiers, a logical grouping of names used in a program. Within the same context and same scope, an identifier must uniquely identify an entity. In an operating system a directory is a namespace.

API-
Application Programming Interface. In the context of APIs, the word Application refers to any software with a distinct function. Interface can be thought of as a contract of service between two applications. This contract defines how the two communicate with each other using requests and responses.